1. the asynchronous nature can lead to troubles with flow or order of execution making it harder to identify and fix bugs. Loose typing may be considered a pain because its easier to introduce erros that are not discovered until runtime which can make debugging harder. Being on a webplatform can make it difficult because different browsers may behave differentlt. This can mean that code will not be consistent across browsers. 
2. The developers may have made it loosly typed to make the language simpler and more flexible so people can code faster and makes it easier for developers with little experience. They may have made it asynchronous because it is used in web applications for tasks can be performed and updated without blocking the main thread of execution.
3. The key differences between compiled and interpretted languages is that in compiled languages, translation process is performed by a compiler that converts the code into machine code to create an executable file. The new file is then executed by the CPU. Interpretted languages are translated line by line into machine code at run time and do not have a seperate executable file. Javascript is an interpretted language. some of the benedits are quick development as imediate testing is possible and easier debugging with detailed error messages. some drawbacks are that it can have slower performance and it is not very secure as it is available to the users.
4. I think that Powell could be focusing on vanilla JavaScript because it provides a better understanding of the fundamentals of javaScript especially to those of us who are new to JS and web development. It can be beneficially to learn the concepts without any framwork abstraction wihch could make debugging and/or optimization easier in the future. vanilla JavaScript also can be more flexible because it doesnt rely on a specific framwork so it could make it easier to adapt to other applications or across browsers. Some drawbacks could be that it may take more time to develop the product and code may be less effecient or repetative as a problem may have already been solved by someone's framwork.
5. I think that the debugging tool will be helpful to get realtime feedback on debugging process while creating our product. downloading node should also help to run small amounts of javascript during the project to ensure that it behaves as expected. This lab also gave a better understanding on teh difference in variable declerations which should help when coding our product to amke sure our variables are properly defined and accessible how we need them to be. 